public/data/ai.md, before:

# AI

# Problem

AI systems are increasingly powerful but remain opaque, centralized, and controlled by a handful of large corporations. Users lack visibility into model training data, inference processes, and decision-making logic. There's no verifiable way to audit AI outputs, track provenance, or ensure fair compensation to data contributors. As AI agents become autonomous actors in digital ecosystems, they need secure identities, wallets, and verifiable credentials to participate in economic activities.

# Opportunities

- **Verifiable AI inference:** Onchain proofs that a specific model produced a specific output, enabling accountability and auditability.
- **Decentralized AI training:** Federated learning and collaborative model training with cryptographic guarantees and contributor rewards.
- **AI agent wallets and identity:** Autonomous agents with onchain identities that can hold assets, sign transactions, and participate in DAOs.
- **Model and dataset marketplaces:** Tokenized AI models and training datasets with programmable licensing, usage tracking, and royalty distribution.
- **AI output provenance:** Watermarking, signing, and tracking AI-generated content to combat deepfakes and misinformation.
- **Compute marketplaces:** Decentralized GPU networks for AI training and inference with verifiable computation.
- **AI governance and alignment:** Onchain mechanisms for community oversight, bounties for alignment research, and transparent model evaluation.

# Resources

**Projects**

- Compute Networks
    - [Akash](https://akash.network/) - Decentralized cloud compute marketplace
    - [Render Network](https://rendernetwork.com/) - Distributed GPU rendering and compute
    - [io.net](https://io.net/) - Decentralized GPU network for ML workloads
    - [Gensyn](https://www.gensyn.ai/) - Decentralized machine learning compute protocol
    - [Together AI](https://www.together.ai/) - Decentralized AI cloud
- AI Agents & Infrastructure
    - [Virtuals Protocol](https://virtuals.io/) - AI agent creation and tokenization
    - [ai16z](https://ai16z.ai/) - AI-powered investment DAO
    - [Theoriq](https://www.theoriq.ai/) - AI agent coordination protocol
    - [Autonolas](https://www.autonolas.network/) - Autonomous agent services
    - [Fetch.ai](https://fetch.ai/) - Autonomous economic agents
- Verifiable AI
    - [Modulus Labs](https://www.modulus.xyz/) - ZK proofs for ML inference
    - [EZKL](https://ezkl.xyz/) - Zero-knowledge proofs for neural networks
    - [Giza](https://www.gizatech.xyz/) - Verifiable ML inference on Starknet
- Data & Model Marketplaces
    - [Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) - Decentralized data marketplace
    - [SingularityNET](https://singularitynet.io/) - AI service marketplace
    - [Bittensor](https://bittensor.com/) - Decentralized machine learning network

**Research**

- [zkML: An optimizing compiler for ML in zero knowledge](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01174) (2024) - Explores efficient zero-knowledge proofs for machine learning models
- [Decentralized AI: A Survey of Approaches and Technologies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00754) (2024) - Comprehensive review of decentralized AI architectures
- [AI Agents and Blockchain: A Survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10632) (2024) - Examines the intersection of autonomous agents and distributed ledger technology

Commit message:

Standardize markdown format and clean up dead entries
- Add YAML frontmatter with title and sector to all 33 markdown files
- Rename Problem section to The Opportunity
- Rename Opportunities section to Ideas with simplified format
- Move Projects and Resources to top-level sections
- Remove dead/defunct/scammy project entries (Catalog, Songcamp,
  Anotherblock, Open Music Initiative, Opulous, Sound.xyz, WindingTree,
  TravelX, Statwig, Ideamarket, Democracy Earth, OpenLaw)
- Update parser to handle new format with frontmatter parsing
- Add sector field to API responses

public/data/ai.md, after:

---
title: AI
sector: Digital
---

## The Opportunity

AI systems are increasingly powerful but remain opaque, centralized, and controlled by a handful of large corporations. Users lack visibility into model training data, inference processes, and decision-making logic. There's no verifiable way to audit AI outputs, track provenance, or ensure fair compensation to data contributors. As AI agents become autonomous actors in digital ecosystems, they need secure identities, wallets, and verifiable credentials to participate in economic activities.

## Ideas

- Verifiable AI inference - Onchain proofs that a specific model produced a specific output, enabling accountability and auditability.
- Decentralized AI training - Federated learning and collaborative model training with cryptographic guarantees and contributor rewards.
- AI agent wallets and identity - Autonomous agents with onchain identities that can hold assets, sign transactions, and participate in DAOs.
- Model and dataset marketplaces - Tokenized AI models and training datasets with programmable licensing, usage tracking, and royalty distribution.
- AI output provenance - Watermarking, signing, and tracking AI-generated content to combat deepfakes and misinformation.
- Compute marketplaces - Decentralized GPU networks for AI training and inference with verifiable computation.
- AI governance and alignment - Onchain mechanisms for community oversight, bounties for alignment research, and transparent model evaluation.

## Projects

- Compute Networks
    - [Akash](https://akash.network/) - Decentralized cloud compute marketplace
    - [Render Network](https://rendernetwork.com/) - Distributed GPU rendering and compute
    - [io.net](https://io.net/) - Decentralized GPU network for ML workloads
    - [Gensyn](https://www.gensyn.ai/) - Decentralized machine learning compute protocol
    - [Together AI](https://www.together.ai/) - Decentralized AI cloud
- AI Agents & Infrastructure
    - [Virtuals Protocol](https://virtuals.io/) - AI agent creation and tokenization
    - [ai16z](https://ai16z.ai/) - AI-powered investment DAO
    - [Theoriq](https://www.theoriq.ai/) - AI agent coordination protocol
    - [Autonolas](https://www.autonolas.network/) - Autonomous agent services
    - [Fetch.ai](https://fetch.ai/) - Autonomous economic agents
- Verifiable AI
    - [Modulus Labs](https://www.modulus.xyz/) - ZK proofs for ML inference
    - [EZKL](https://ezkl.xyz/) - Zero-knowledge proofs for neural networks
    - [Giza](https://www.gizatech.xyz/) - Verifiable ML inference on Starknet
- Data & Model Marketplaces
    - [Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) - Decentralized data marketplace
    - [SingularityNET](https://singularitynet.io/) - AI service marketplace
    - [Bittensor](https://bittensor.com/) - Decentralized machine learning network

## Resources

- [zkML: An optimizing compiler for ML in zero knowledge](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01174) (2024) - Explores efficient zero-knowledge proofs for machine learning models
- [Decentralized AI: A Survey of Approaches and Technologies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00754) (2024) - Comprehensive review of decentralized AI architectures
- [AI Agents and Blockchain: A Survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10632) (2024) - Examines the intersection of autonomous agents and distributed ledger technology
