public/data/public-administration.md, before:

# Public Administration

## Problem

Citizens often face duplicative verification processes, long wait times, paper-based records and limited transparency in how decisions are made. Cross-agency data exchange is inconsistent, making oversight and service delivery costly and error-prone. Corruption and inefficiency thrive where records can be altered or lost and where accountability mechanisms are weak.

## Opportunities

- **Digital ID:** A single, verified identity for citizens that can be used across government services.
- **Civil registries:** Verifiable birth, death, marriage and residency records accessible across agencies.
- **Business registries:** Incorporated-business, licensing and beneficial-ownership records with instant verification.
- **Land & vehicle titles:** Ownership records with lien checks and immutable transfer histories.
- **Permitting & case management:** Digital workflows for permits, applications and entitlements across agencies.
- **Participatory governance:** E-voting, participatory budgeting, petitions and citizen consultation platforms anchored on ledger systems.
- **Digital public infrastructure (DPI):** Interoperable APIs and secure data-exchanges enabling cross-agency coordination.

## Resources

**Projects**

- Digital ID/SSI
    - [Bhutan NDI](https://www.bhutanndi.com/) ([tweet)](https://x.com/AyaMiyagotchi/status/1977798764485361966)
    - [QuarkID](https://quarkid.org/) - SSI protocol for managing essential personal documents such as birth and marriage certificates, academic credentials, and proof of income, developed by the government of Buenos Aires for use in Argentina and other South American countries
    - [Palau Digital Residency Program](https://rns.id/) - offers global citizens the ability to have a legal Palau government-issued ID
- Elections
    - [Vocdoni](https://vocdoni.io/) - Elections infrastructure
    - Democracy Earth - liquid democracy (dead)
- Land registries
    - India: [West Bengal](https://www.techcircle.in/2023/07/05/airchains-west-bengal-s-nkda-to-introduce-blockchain-based-land-ownership?utm_campaign=india-ethereum-ecosystem-overview&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=localethereum.beehiiv.com), [Telangana](https://www.blockchain.meity.gov.in/index.php/success-stories/13-blockchain-based-property-registration-management-system?utm_campaign=india-ethereum-ecosystem-overview&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=localethereum.beehiiv.com), [Andhra Pradesh](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/388826952_The_Applicability_of_Blockchain_Technology_in_Land_Registration_for_Developing_Economies_A_Case_Study_of_India?utm_campaign=india-ethereum-ecosystem-overview&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=localethereum.beehiiv.com)
    - [LAC PropertyChain](https://blog.chromia.com/lac-propertychain-pilot-to-launch-on-chromia-in-q3/?ref=blog.chromaway.com)
    - [Chicago Cook County](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/business/chicago-s-cook-county-to-test-bitcoin-blockchain-based-public-records-1475768860)
    - [Dubai Land Department](https://dubailand.gov.ae/en/news-media/dubai-land-department-achieves-a-technical-milestone-with-the-adoption-of-blockchain-technology-in-cooperation-with-smart-dubai-and-other-partners/#/)
- [Onchain City](https://onchain.city/) - Government services; embassy, passport, licenses, visas, insurance ([post](https://x.com/0xKimberly/status/1967598460221415433))
- [California DMV puts 42 million car titles on blockchain to fight fraud](https://www.reuters.com/technology/california-dmv-puts-42-million-car-titles-blockchain-fight-fraud-2024-07-30/) (2023)

**Research**

- [BRI: Business Licensing](https://www.blockchainresearchinstitute.org/project/business-licensing-governance-for-government-blockchains/) (2018) - Identifies the benefits that blockchains can provide local authorities in accelerating the launch of new businesses, supporting entrepreneurs, and reinforcing innovation cycles
- [BRI: India’s Land Registry on Blockchain](https://www.blockchainresearchinstitute.org/project/indias-land-registry-on-blockchain/) (2018) - UNDP in India to address property title disputes & land registry corruption
- [Blockchain for decentralised rural development and governance](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2096720922000276) (2022) - DAOs at national and regional levels to enable transparent, participatory governance where citizens vote on development priorities, budgets, and planning decisions.
- [Information Sharing in Land Registration Using Hyperledger Fabric Blockchain](https://www.mdpi.com/2813-5288/2/2/6) (2024)

Commit message:

Standardize markdown format and clean up dead entries
- Add YAML frontmatter with title and sector to all 33 markdown files
- Rename Problem section to The Opportunity
- Rename Opportunities section to Ideas with simplified format
- Move Projects and Resources to top-level sections
- Remove dead/defunct/scammy project entries (Catalog, Songcamp,
  Anotherblock, Open Music Initiative, Opulous, Sound.xyz, WindingTree,
  TravelX, Statwig, Ideamarket, Democracy Earth, OpenLaw)
- Update parser to handle new format with frontmatter parsing
- Add sector field to API responses

public/data/public-administration.md, after:

---
title: Public Administration
sector: Society
---

## The Opportunity

Citizens often face duplicative verification processes, long wait times, paper-based records and limited transparency in how decisions are made. Cross-agency data exchange is inconsistent, making oversight and service delivery costly and error-prone. Corruption and inefficiency thrive where records can be altered or lost and where accountability mechanisms are weak.

## Ideas

- Digital ID - A single, verified identity for citizens that can be used across government services.
- Civil registries - Verifiable birth, death, marriage and residency records accessible across agencies.
- Business registries - Incorporated-business, licensing and beneficial-ownership records with instant verification.
- Land & vehicle titles - Ownership records with lien checks and immutable transfer histories.
- Permitting & case management - Digital workflows for permits, applications and entitlements across agencies.
- Participatory governance - E-voting, participatory budgeting, petitions and citizen consultation platforms anchored on ledger systems.
- Digital public infrastructure (DPI) - Interoperable APIs and secure data-exchanges enabling cross-agency coordination.

## Projects

- Digital ID/SSI
    - [Bhutan NDI](https://www.bhutanndi.com/) ([tweet)](https://x.com/AyaMiyagotchi/status/1977798764485361966)
    - [QuarkID](https://quarkid.org/) - SSI protocol for managing essential personal documents such as birth and marriage certificates, academic credentials, and proof of income, developed by the government of Buenos Aires for use in Argentina and other South American countries
    - [Palau Digital Residency Program](https://rns.id/) - offers global citizens the ability to have a legal Palau government-issued ID
- Elections
    - [Vocdoni](https://vocdoni.io/) - Elections infrastructure
- Land registries
    - India: [West Bengal](https://www.techcircle.in/2023/07/05/airchains-west-bengal-s-nkda-to-introduce-blockchain-based-land-ownership?utm_campaign=india-ethereum-ecosystem-overview&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=localethereum.beehiiv.com), [Telangana](https://www.blockchain.meity.gov.in/index.php/success-stories/13-blockchain-based-property-registration-management-system?utm_campaign=india-ethereum-ecosystem-overview&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=localethereum.beehiiv.com), [Andhra Pradesh](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/388826952_The_Applicability_of_Blockchain_Technology_in_Land_Registration_for_Developing_Economies_A_Case_Study_of_India?utm_campaign=india-ethereum-ecosystem-overview&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=localethereum.beehiiv.com)
    - [LAC PropertyChain](https://blog.chromia.com/lac-propertychain-pilot-to-launch-on-chromia-in-q3/?ref=blog.chromaway.com)
    - [Chicago Cook County](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/business/chicago-s-cook-county-to-test-bitcoin-blockchain-based-public-records-1475768860)
    - [Dubai Land Department](https://dubailand.gov.ae/en/news-media/dubai-land-department-achieves-a-technical-milestone-with-the-adoption-of-blockchain-technology-in-cooperation-with-smart-dubai-and-other-partners/#/)
- [Onchain City](https://onchain.city/) - Government services; embassy, passport, licenses, visas, insurance ([post](https://x.com/0xKimberly/status/1967598460221415433))
- [California DMV puts 42 million car titles on blockchain to fight fraud](https://www.reuters.com/technology/california-dmv-puts-42-million-car-titles-blockchain-fight-fraud-2024-07-30/) (2023)

## Resources

- [BRI: Business Licensing](https://www.blockchainresearchinstitute.org/project/business-licensing-governance-for-government-blockchains/) (2018) - Identifies the benefits that blockchains can provide local authorities in accelerating the launch of new businesses, supporting entrepreneurs, and reinforcing innovation cycles
- [BRI: India’s Land Registry on Blockchain](https://www.blockchainresearchinstitute.org/project/indias-land-registry-on-blockchain/) (2018) - UNDP in India to address property title disputes & land registry corruption
- [Blockchain for decentralised rural development and governance](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2096720922000276) (2022) - DAOs at national and regional levels to enable transparent, participatory governance where citizens vote on development priorities, budgets, and planning decisions.
- [Information Sharing in Land Registration Using Hyperledger Fabric Blockchain](https://www.mdpi.com/2813-5288/2/2/6) (2024)
