public/data/social.md, before:

# Social

## Problem

Today’s social platforms concentrate power in a small number of large companies. These intermediaries control how attention is monetized, own the user-data silos, dictate recommendation and moderation algorithms, and can de-platform individuals and communities at will. At the same time, users and creators face poor data portability, opaque algorithmic decisions, and limited monetization options. Meanwhile misinformation, spam, and bots flood feeds, reducing trust, and creators struggle with arbitrary rules and revenue-share models.

## Opportunities

Ethereum can enable decentralized social networks with portable identity, verifiable reputation, creator monetization and transparent governance to shift power away from centralized platforms.

- **Portable social identity:** On-chain handles and profiles that work across multiple apps and enable users to carry their identity and data
- **Verifiable reputation:** Attestations for follows, engagement, contributions and community participation that are portable
- **Creator & content tokenization:** Gated access, token-based benefits, revenue-share models for creators and their communities
- **Creator monetization:** Subscriptions, tipping, revenue splits, micro-payments embedded in content platforms
- **Content provenance:** Signed posts and media receipts to combat impersonation, fraud and deepfakes — for example notarizing photos/videos/hardware signed + hash on-chain.
- **Moderation & bot-detection mechanisms:** Community notes, reputation-weighted signals, proof-of-humanity checks to reduce spam and manipulation
- **Credential/token-gated groups & curation mechanisms:** For example grads of X, attendee networks, token-curated registries (TCRs), staking games, curated communities
- **Crowdfunding & incentivizing real-world actions:** Mechanisms to tie social participation to offline actions (POIDH – proof of impact/delivery in human domains)

## Resources

**Projects**

- [Farcaster](https://docs.farcaster.xyz/learn/) - A decentralized social-graph protocol enabling user-owned identity and interoperable social apps. ([docs.farcaster.xyz](http://docs.farcaster.xyz))
- [Zora](https://zora.co/) - On-chain creator monetization and media-minting platform where creators issue tokens for content. ([Zora](https://zora.co/?utm_source=chatgpt.com))
- [Own](https://www.ownapp.co/) - gamified short-form content social app
- [Lens](https://lens.xyz/) - decentralized social network that lets users own their profiles, content, and connections onchain
- [Unlock Protocol](https://unlock-protocol.com/) - Token-gated access tool for creators and communities.
- [Hypersub](https://hypersub.xyz/) - Subscription-platform exploring tokenized creator monetization.
- [Minds](http://minds.com/) - Social network with token boosting and curation rewards for engagement.
- [Akasha](https://akasha.org/world/) - Early blockchain-based social network initiative exploring decentralized identity and community governance.

**Research**

- [Social Media on the Blockchain](https://www.blockchainresearchinstitute.org/project/social-media-on-the-blockchain/) (2018) - case study on Akasha
- [The Application of Blockchain in Social Media: A Systematic Literature Review](https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/12/13/6567) **(2022) - how blockchain has been applied in social media, focusing on provenance, privacy and decentralization
- [Posting Bot Detection on Blockchain-based Social Media Platform using Machine Learning Techniques](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/18062) (2022) - Focuses on bot detection in decentralized social platforms and feature engineering for classification.
- [AI Threats to Politics, Elections, and Democracy: A Blockchain-Based Deepfake Authenticity Verification Framework](https://www.mdpi.com/2813-5288/2/4/20) (2024)

Commit message:

Standardize markdown format and clean up dead entries
- Add YAML frontmatter with title and sector to all 33 markdown files
- Rename Problem section to The Opportunity
- Rename Opportunities section to Ideas with simplified format
- Move Projects and Resources to top-level sections
- Remove dead/defunct/scammy project entries (Catalog, Songcamp,
  Anotherblock, Open Music Initiative, Opulous, Sound.xyz, WindingTree,
  TravelX, Statwig, Ideamarket, Democracy Earth, OpenLaw)
- Update parser to handle new format with frontmatter parsing
- Add sector field to API responses

public/data/social.md, after:

---
title: Social
sector: Consumer
---

## The Opportunity

Today’s social platforms concentrate power in a small number of large companies. These intermediaries control how attention is monetized, own the user-data silos, dictate recommendation and moderation algorithms, and can de-platform individuals and communities at will. At the same time, users and creators face poor data portability, opaque algorithmic decisions, and limited monetization options. Meanwhile misinformation, spam, and bots flood feeds, reducing trust, and creators struggle with arbitrary rules and revenue-share models.

## Ideas

- Portable social identity - On-chain handles and profiles that work across multiple apps and enable users to carry their identity and data
- Verifiable reputation - Attestations for follows, engagement, contributions and community participation that are portable
- Creator & content tokenization - Gated access, token-based benefits, revenue-share models for creators and their communities
- Creator monetization - Subscriptions, tipping, revenue splits, micro-payments embedded in content platforms
- Content provenance - Signed posts and media receipts to combat impersonation, fraud and deepfakes — for example notarizing photos/videos/hardware signed + hash on-chain.
- Moderation & bot-detection mechanisms - Community notes, reputation-weighted signals, proof-of-humanity checks to reduce spam and manipulation
- Credential/token-gated groups & curation mechanisms - For example grads of X, attendee networks, token-curated registries (TCRs), staking games, curated communities
- Crowdfunding & incentivizing real-world actions - Mechanisms to tie social participation to offline actions (POIDH – proof of impact/delivery in human domains)

## Projects

- [Farcaster](https://docs.farcaster.xyz/learn/) - A decentralized social-graph protocol enabling user-owned identity and interoperable social apps. ([docs.farcaster.xyz](http://docs.farcaster.xyz))
- [Zora](https://zora.co/) - On-chain creator monetization and media-minting platform where creators issue tokens for content. ([Zora](https://zora.co/?utm_source=chatgpt.com))
- [Own](https://www.ownapp.co/) - gamified short-form content social app
- [Lens](https://lens.xyz/) - decentralized social network that lets users own their profiles, content, and connections onchain
- [Unlock Protocol](https://unlock-protocol.com/) - Token-gated access tool for creators and communities.
- [Hypersub](https://hypersub.xyz/) - Subscription-platform exploring tokenized creator monetization.
- [Minds](http://minds.com/) - Social network with token boosting and curation rewards for engagement.
- [Akasha](https://akasha.org/world/) - Early blockchain-based social network initiative exploring decentralized identity and community governance.

## Resources

- [Social Media on the Blockchain](https://www.blockchainresearchinstitute.org/project/social-media-on-the-blockchain/) (2018) - case study on Akasha
- [The Application of Blockchain in Social Media: A Systematic Literature Review](https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/12/13/6567) **(2022) - how blockchain has been applied in social media, focusing on provenance, privacy and decentralization
- [Posting Bot Detection on Blockchain-based Social Media Platform using Machine Learning Techniques](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/18062) (2022) - Focuses on bot detection in decentralized social platforms and feature engineering for classification.
- [AI Threats to Politics, Elections, and Democracy: A Blockchain-Based Deepfake Authenticity Verification Framework](https://www.mdpi.com/2813-5288/2/4/20) (2024)
